# Thoughts on Training and Offseason

## Getting Started Early
One of our biggest failures this year was not having people getting started on training early. In order to help facilitate getting started early, we should have a before-school VEX _EDR_ or FTC training week. Some other teams are doing a similar process. We should try to integrate our Thursday Night Presentations into this week, focusing on interactivity and learning by doing. I would really like for people to have an idea of what they want to do, or get a mentor recommendation soon after. We wasted way too much time this year waiting for the rookies deciding what they want to do (many decided after CalGames). This resulted in a lot of lost productivity during the offseason. If we got people started as early as possible, we could actually get the time needed for the rookies to be affective their first year. We also should try to push people working on actual projects during the offseason as soon as possible.

## Making the most of our time
We need to make sure that everyone uses the offseason effectively as possible. This means that anything that does not need to be done at a work session can be done at home and things that need to be done at work sessions should be done in an efficient manner. We also need to be better about not wasting time at work sessions. People should have the option to end lunch early and continue working on projects. We also should try to make the opening meetings as short as possible, and try to move all nonessential items to less intrusive communications (SMS, email, Slack, etc.). We should also push for people to take advantage of all resources including presentations (WRRF, CCC, etc.), Chief Delphi, and FUN. 

## Offseason projects
When possible, we should try to have people work on *projets* to try to facilitate training. Ideally, these projects would have a direct impact on our actual robot, but we may need for them to be more optimized for training, especially early on. Sub-teams should try to work on multiple projects if they have the human resources to support that. The experienced leadership people should try to facilitate the projects for rookies or work with rookies. However, they should primarily be focused on making the team better. *Team 100 has not gotten better as fast as other teams, so we should try to improve quickly and try to catch up to other teams.* Since learning through trial and error is effective, the veterans should try to allow for mistakes to be made during the offseason. 

### Specialization
Team members should specialize during the offseason in order to be experts in certain aspects of the sub-team. For example, programming non-drivetrain control systems and programming camera servers with an emphasis on network efficiency are remarkably different, and the person doing camera servers does not need a complete understanding of how motion magic works and vice versa. This specialization should be taken into account during offseason projects.

### Projects for software
I would like to have other software people (not myself) rewrite the robot code from scratch and see how we can improve. I think that it will teach them everything they need to know about how to write robot code. They may not need to account for the button board as that took a lot of time, but I would like for everyone to get started with very little involvement from myself.

If anyone has a project that they would like to do that is software-related, I am more than happy to support it. That being said, not all software projects (or projects for any other sub-team) will make it onto the robot.

## Team Priorities
I would like for everyone on the team to know how to prototype and be prepared to prototype late into the season. One of the things that I see as most powerful with teams like 1678 is that they prototype late into the season, allowing for them to choose the best ideas from a long list. 

We should focus on reliability efficiency, and standardization throughout the training process. We performed terribly at SFR partially because the training for electronics did not focus on reliability, creating a team culture that does not appreciate reliability, which creates an unreliable robot. Electronics also did not have a set of standards, creating an unreliable and unmaintainable mess for the control system. If we do not have reliability and standards in every sub-team, the robot will be uncontrollable and we will perform poorly at competition.

While I would like to get more people involved, I think that the team needs to be prepared to sacrifice unusually long individual man hours in order to reduce the collective man hours during Build Season (if it comes down to it, have a smaller group work faster than have a lot of people work slowly). We did this a lot this year and I think that we could share the wealth more, but I think that at a certain point, people just need to get stuff done.

### Man Hours vs Project Progress
Team 100 seems to prioritize the individual man hours contributed as supposed to the progress and success of project. This encourages people to show up when they need, and creates the idea that when the work session ends, robotics is over. I would rather that the team reduce (possibly eliminate) the importance of the check-in process and instead focus on the progress of projects and allow students to choose what is the best environment to complete said projects.. I know that there were many times that I found myself working in a terrible environment on projects that could've been done easier at home due to the importance of check-in and check-out, and on the rare occasions that I went home, faced pushback from mentors and fellow team members. This caused the message to not be "do what you need to do in order to be successful" but rather "show up regardless of the situation and have the overall progress of the project and team hinder as a result.

## Other
### Encouraging Participation
We need to find a way to incentivize participation on the team. I am very frustrated at how there were many projects that failed because people feel that they weren't "worth their time.” We need to find some way to encourage people to feel that projects are "worth their time." Some people on the Leadership team have been very good at doing projects that aren't fun but are necessary to the success of the team. I would rather that these projects get distributed more evenly. Outside of leadership, this happened on many of the sub -teams both before and during Build Season. While some people would argue that the points associated with the class are a motivation, many of the people who are doing the "not fun" jobs are doing robotics for the sake of robotics, not for the credits, and many (not all) of the people who aren't doing the "not fun" projects don't seem to care too significantly about the points. As a result, we should try to find a way to incentivize people to participate in the aspects of robotics which aren't the most fun part. At this time, I do not have any ideas for incentives. 

### Competing outside of the state
Given how saturated California is with good teams, I am not sure whether California (especially Northern California) is the right place for Team 100 to compete. In particular, I think that we as a team need to evaluate whether we want to continue competing at Sacramento Regional (`cada`). I have been to three out of the four `cada` regionals since Anna joined the team (and watched the other on Twitch) and it does not seem to be a good fit for the team. I would like for the team to have an honest discussion about whether we should try to compete at `cada` in the future, or if we should focus our energy to another regional (either `casv` or out of state).

